README.md, before:

# ASMFS

A read-only FUSE filesystem that exposes **raw** Oracle ASM files.

![Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-experimental-orange)

:warning: This project is experimental, not well-tested, and still under development.

## Compile

```
$ cargo build
```

## Help

```
$ ./asmfs -help
Usage: asmfs [OPTIONS] <MOUNT_POINT>

Arguments:
  <MOUNT_POINT>  Act as a client, and mount FUSE at given path

Options:
      --conn <CONNECTION_STRING>  Connection string to remote ASM instance - user/pass@host:port/service (user must have sysdba)
      --auto-unmount              Automatically unmount on process exit
      --allow-root                Allow root user to access filesystem
  -h, --help                      Print help
  -V, --version                   Print version
```

## Local Example

```
$ . oraenv
ORACLE_SID = [+ASM] ? +ASM

$ ./asmfs /mnt/asmfs/
```

## Remote Example

```
$ ./asmfs --conn user/pass@hostname:1521/+ASM /mnt/asmfs/
```

## Warning!

This is __not__ meant for production usage. First of all, it uses _undocumented_ `dbms_diskgroup.read()` call to
access raw blocks of files. Which, it seems, according to my testing, returns __raw__ data as written in ASM diskgroup. Meaning, if you
copy files from this filesystem, be aware that first few bytes will likely be different to what you would get if you'd use `rman backup/restore` or `asmcmd cp`
to copy files to local filesystem.

This project is **experimental**, not well-tested, and still under development.

**Contributions are welcome!** Ideas, issues, and pull requests are appreciated.

## Screenshot (demo)

![asmfs demo](https://github.com/usrecnik/asmfs/blob/main/doc/asmfs_screenshot.png?raw=true)

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and additional options
Updated README to clarify usage options and examples.

README.md, after:

# ASMFS

A read-only FUSE filesystem that exposes Oracle ASM files.

![Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-experimental-orange)

:warning: This project is experimental, not well-tested, and still under development.

## Compile

```
$ cargo build
```

## Help

```
Usage: asmfs [OPTIONS] <MOUNT_POINT>

Arguments:
  <MOUNT_POINT>  Act as a client, and mount FUSE at given path

Options:
      --conn <CONNECTION_STRING>  Connection string to remote ASM instance - user/pass@host:port/service (user must have sysdba)
      --no-raw                    Use DBMS_DISKGROUP.READ() instead of raw device access
      --mirror <mirror>           0=>primary copy, 1=>first redundant copy, 2=>second redundant copy [default: 0]
      --auto-unmount              Automatically unmount on process exit
      --allow-root                Allow root user to access filesystem
  -h, --help                      Print help
  -V, --version                   Print version
```

## Two Modes

There are two different implementations on how `asmfs` can read files from ASM:

* A raw access to block devices, which is the default and works as described here (link todo).
* `dbms_diskgroup.read()` which is used only if you explicitly specify `--no-raw`. The limitations of this approach are described in [this blog post](https://blog.srecnik.info/asmfs-and-dbmsdiskgroupread)

## Examples

### Raw mode with udev

```
@todo
```

### Raw mode with AFD

```
@todo
```

### `dbms_diskgroup.read` locally

```
$ . oraenv
ORACLE_SID = [+ASM] ? +ASM

$ ./asmfs --no-raw /mnt/asmfs/
```

### `dbms_diskgroup.read` remotely

```
$ ./asmfs --no-raw --conn user/pass@hostname:1521/+ASM /mnt/asmfs/
```

## Warning!

This is __not__ meant for production usage. 

This project is **experimental**, not well-tested, and still under development.

**Contributions are welcome!** Ideas, issues, and pull requests are appreciated.

## Screenshot (demo)

![asmfs demo](https://github.com/usrecnik/asmfs/blob/main/doc/asmfs_screenshot.png?raw=true)
